After a little he said: "And yet that sister is a perfect treasure, in spite of her lack of beauty.
The elder also is a treasure, and happy the man that wins her."
One thing is certain,--I've found a perfect treasure!"
"She's a treasure, my dear friend!"
cried Mr. Plateas,--"a perfect treasure!
Poor folk rejoice more over a child that is born to them, than over all the treasures in the world, but the child whom God sends on Easter Day or St. Nicholas day is above all welcome."
To be compared with him was not even Wieland (Volund, Wayland), still less anyone else, with the one exception of Hertrich, who was Mimir's co-labourer, and assisted him in making all the treasures he produced: Zuo siner (Mimir's) meisterschefte ich nieman kan gelichen in allen fürsten richen an einen, den ich nenne, daz man in dar bi erkenne: Der war Hertrich genant.
It should be remembered what he relates about the incomparable treasures which are preserved in Gudmund-Mimir's domain, among which in addition to those already named occur _arma humanorum corporum habitu grandiora_ (i., p. 427), and about Mimingus, who possesses the sword of victory, and an arm-ring which produces wealth (i.
If we consult the poetic Edda, we find Mimir mentioned as _Hodd-Mimir_, Treasure-Mimir (Vafthr.
45); as _naddgöfugr jotunn_, the giant celebrated for his weapons (Grogalder, 14); as _Hoddrofnir_, or _Hodd-dropnir_, the treasure-dropping one (Sigrdr., 13); as _Baugreginn_, the king of the gold-rings (Solarlj., 56).
It is, therefore, perfectly logical when the mythology makes him its first smith and chief artist, and keeper of treasures and the ruler of a group of dwarfs, underground artists, for originally these were and remained creative forces personified, just as Rigveda's Rubhus, who smithied flowers and grass, and animals, and opened the veins of the earth for fertilising streams, while they at the same time made implements and weapons.
In the background which Einar has given to his poetical paraphrase, we thus have the myth telling how the sun-god Balder, on his descent to the lower world, was strengthened by the soma-sacrifice brought him by the _ásmegir_, and how he sent back with Hermod the treasures of fertility which had gone with him and Nanna to the lower world, and which restored the fertility of the earth.
As Jima's enclosed garden was established on account of the fimbul-winter, which occurred in time's morning, it continues to exist after the close of the winter, and preserves through all the historical ages those treasures of uncorrupted men, animals, and plants which in the beginning of time were collected there.
626, &c. In the last passages the game is mentioned in connection with the other subterranean treasure, the horn.)
The word _hodd_ means that which is concealed (the treasure), and at the same time a protected sacred place.
Adam of Bremen had heard this tunnel mentioned in connection with the story about the Frisian noblemen who went by sea to the furthest north, came to the land of subterranean giants, and plundered their treasures (see No.
Skirner then offers her the most precious treasure, the ring _Draupnir_, but in vain.
It is also evident that with the root under which the frost-giant dwells that one, referred to by Gylfaginning, can impossibly be meant under which Mimir's glorious fountain, and Mimir's grove, and all his treasures stored for a future world, are situated.
Did not Havamál's author, and the many who listened to and treasured in their memories these words of his, know as well as all other persons who have some age and experience, that in the great majority of cases the fame acquired by a person scarcely survives a generation, and passes away together with the very memory of the deceased?
One of Gorm's men is anxious to secure the treasure.
Then the horn lengthens into a dragon who kills the would-be robber (_cornu in draconem extractum sui spiritum latoris eripuit._) Like Slidrugtanne and other subterranean treasures, the serpent or dragon on the drinking-horn of the lower world is endowed with life when necessary, or the horn itself acquires life in the form of a dragon, and punishes with death him who has no right to touch it.
Their activity in connection with the great mechanism, mondul, which they pushed, amid the singing of bliss-bringing songs of sorcery, was a counterpart of the activity of the sons of Alvalde, who made for the gods the treasures of vegetation.
In Havamál "Rate's mouth" gnaws the tunnel through which Odin, in the guise of an eagle, flies away with the mead-treasure concealed in the "deep dales" at Fjalar's under the roots of the world-tree.
In the allegorical Grimnersmal strophe it is "Rate's tooth" (_Ratatoskr_) who lets the mead-drinking foe of the gods near the root of the world-tree find out what the eagle in the top of the world-tree (Odin) resolves and carries out in regard to the same treasure.
There dwell the smiths of antiquity who made the chariots of the sun and moon and smithied the treasures of vegetation.
Volund passes the time in smithying, until he is suddenly attacked by _Nidadr_ (_Nidudr_), "the Njara-king" (Volundarkv., 6), who puts him in chains and robs him of two extraordinary treasures--a sword and an arm-ring.
Mimir being the one who took possession of the treasure, it is perfectly natural that his son should be its keeper.
The well of the lower world with the "clear mead" is Mimir's fountain, and the paraphrase ring-Regin is well suited to Mimir, who possessed among other treasures the wonderful ring of Hotherus.
(5) _Hoddrofnir_, presumably "the one bounteous in treasures."
There is no admittance for everybody to the rocky abode where the mead-treasure so much desired by all powers is kept.
But something happens which causes the treasure which the fountain gave its discoverers to be carried from Jotunheim to Nokve's ship, and there the drink is accessible to the gods.
But when he produced his money, which was from the time of Decius, he was seized by the vendor, who insisted that he must have found secreted treasures from former times, and who, as the youth made a stout denial, brought him before the bishop and the judge.
With their companions they are permitted to visit the abodes of torture of the damned and the fields of bliss, together with the gold-clad world-fountains, and to see the treasures preserved in their vicinity.
In the same realm where these fountains are found there is, says Saxo, a _tabernaculum_ within which still more precious treasures are preserved.
By the enticing beauty and value of the treasures, and partly, too, by the dormant condition of the owners, the Danes were betrayed into an attempt to secure some of these precious things.
With this account in Saxo we must compare what we read in Adam of Bremen about the Frisian adventurers who tried to plunder treasures belonging to giants who in the middle of the day lay concealed in subterranean caves (_meridiano tempore latitantes antris subterraneis_).
This account must also have conceived the owners of the treasures as sleeping while the plundering took place, for not before they were on their way back were the Frisians pursued by the plundered party or by other lower-world beings.
Adam asserts that they were such beings _quos nostri cyclopes appellant_ ("which among us are called cyclops"), that they, in other words, were gigantic smiths, who, accordingly, themselves had made the untold amount of golden treasures which the Frisians there saw.
Adam makes his Frisian adventurers come near being swallowed up by this maelstrom before they reach the caves of treasures where the cyclops in question dwell; and Saxo locates their tabernacle, filled with weapons and treasures, to a region which we have already recognised (see Nos.
I base this assumption on the following circumstances: _Dvalinn_ is mentioned by the side of _Dáinn_ both in Havamál (43) and in Grimnersmal (33); also in the sagas, where they make treasures in company.
Thus we arrive at the following parallels: Dáinn (-Brokkr) and Dvalinn made treasures together; (Dáinn-) Brokkr and Sindri made Frey's golden boar; Dáinn and Nabbi made Frey's golden boar; and the conclusion we draw herefrom is that in our mythology, in which there is such a plurality of names, _Dvalinn_, _Sindri_, and _Nabbi_ are the same person, and that _Dáinn_ and _Brokkr_ are identical.
"The slumberer" thus rests with his kinsmen, where Paulus Diaconus has heard that seven men sleep from time out of mind, and where Adam of Bremen makes smithying giants, rich in treasures, keep themselves concealed in lower-world caves within walls surrounded by water.
According to Saxo, voices of women are heard in the _tabernaculum_ belonging to the sleeping men, and glittering with weapons and treasures, when Thorkil and his men come to plunder the treasures there.
These, voluntarily or involuntarily, retired, and the story of the seven men who sleep in the citadel full of treasures informs us how they thenceforth spend their time until Ragnarok.
Popular traditions scattered over Sweden, Denmark, and Germany have to this very day been preserved, on the lips of the common people, of the men sleeping among weapons and treasures in underground chambers or in rocky halls.
As sons of Mimir, the great smith of antiquity, the seven brothers were themselves great smiths of antiquity, who, during the first happy epoch, gave to the gods and to nature the most beautiful treasures (Mjolner, Brisingamen, Slidrugtanne, Draupner).
The hall where they now rest is also a treasure-chamber, which preserves a number of splendid products of their skill as smiths, and among these are weapons, too large to be wielded by human hands, but intended to be employed by the brothers themselves when Ragnarok is at hand and the great decisive conflict comes between the powers of good and of evil.
But whoever ventured to touch their treasures, or was allured by the splendour of their mantles to attempt to secure any of them, was punished by the drooping and withering of his limbs.
The hall in which Menglad lives, and that part of the wall-surrounded domain which belongs to her, seems to be situated directly in front of the gate, for Svipdag, standing before it, asks who is the ruler of the domain which he sees before him, and Fjölsvin answers that it is Menglad who there holds sway, owns the land, and is mistress of the treasure-chambers.
He who robs "the airy one" of his treasures must also have been intimately related to the dises of night, else he would not have selected as keeper of the weapon Sinmara, whose quality as a being of night is manifested by the meaning _incubus nocturnes_ which is the name _Mara_ acquired.
When Gelder, the king of Saxony, learned that the treasure of Mimingus had been robbed, he resolved to make war against Hotherus.
A conflict arose in regard to the possession of the ornament, and the brave son of the nine mothers became the victor and preserved the treasure for Asgard.
So long as the latter lived Brisingamen surely had a faithful watcher, for it is the nature of a dragon to brood over the treasures he finds.
The narrow limits of the ballad forbade telling how Sveidal came into possession of the treasures promised by the mother or giving an account of the exploits he performed with the sword.
If Volund and his brothers are those Ivalde sons who, after having given the gods beautiful treasures, became offended on account of the decision which placed Sindre's work, particularly Mjolner, higher than their own, then the mythology has also completely indemnified them in regard to this insult.
In the mythology we read that elves smithied splendid treasures for Frey (Grimnersmal, 42; Younger Edda, i.
Among these treasures were the remarkable ship _Skidbladnir_ and the gold-glittering boar _Slidrugtanni_, also called Gullinbursti (Younger Edda, i.
The elves that smithied these treasures are called Ivalde's sons, and constitute the same group of brothers whose gifts to the gods, at the instigation of Loke, are subjected to a public examination by the Asas and by them found wanting as compared with Sindre's products.
(_a_) Ivalde's sons were intimately associated with Frey and gave him precious treasures.
The consequence of the first deceitful act was, as we see, that hands skilful in art--hands which hitherto had made and given such treasures--refused to serve the gods any longer.
They make weapons, coats-of-mail, and means of locomotion, and make wonderful treasures for the gods.
With Ivalde's sons, they, therefore, share the qualities of being at the same time creators of vegetation, and smiths at the hearth, and bestowers of precious treasures to the gods.
(4) The variation _Audvaldi_ means "the one presiding over riches," and the epithet finds its explanation in the Younger Edda's account of the gold treasure left by Thjasse's father, and of its division among his sons (p.
Ivalde's sons, who gave the gods golden treasures, were likewise rich in gold, and in Volundarkvida Volund speaks of his and his kinsmen's golden wealth in their common home.
(5) Of the manner in which Thjasse and his brothers divided the golden treasure the Younger Edda contains, in the above passage, the following statement: "When Olvalde died and his sons were to divide the inheritance, they agreed in the division to measure the gold by taking their mouths full of gold an equal number of times.
With _thingskil_ is meant that which can be produced before a court by the defendant in a dispute to clear up his case; and as gold ornaments are called Thjasse's _thingskil_ in Bjarkamal, it should follow that some judicial act was mentioned in the mythology, in which gold treasures made or possessed by Thjasse were produced to clear up a dispute which, in some way or other, touched him.
(16) In the same poem, Haustlaung, Thjasse is called _hapta snytrir_, "the one who decorated the gods," furnished them with treasures.
Thus we have already found three paraphrases which inform us that Thjasse was an ancient artist, one of the great smiths of mythology: (1) _thiaza thingskil_, golden treasures produced as evidence in court owned or made by Thjasse; (2) _hapta snytrir_, he who gave ornaments to the gods; (3) _fadir mörna_, the father of the swords.
He was for a time _hapta snytrir_, "the one giving the gods treasures."
Einar Skalaglam, who received costly treasures from Hakon Jarl, speaks in his song of praise to the latter of the "works of Rogner," which please him, and which must be the treasures he received from the Jarl.
There was a time when they were the friends of the gods and smithied for them costly treasures, and there was another time when they had the same plans as Loke tried to carry out in a secret manner--that is, to dethrone the gods and destroy what they had created.
The fact that they have been adapted, and still continue to be adapted, to the poems of the heathen skalds, is one of the reasons why the important contributions which names and paraphrases in the heathen poetry are able to furnish in mythological investigations have remained an unused treasure.
The son of Ivalde, Volund, made the most precious treasures for the gods while he still was their friend, and the Olvalde son Thjasse is called _hapta snytrir_, "the decorator of the gods," doubtless for the reason that he had smithied treasures for the gods during a time when he was their friend and Thor's _ofrúni_ (Thor's confidential friend).
Splendid implements are called _verk Rögnis_ and _Thjaza thingskil_, _Idja glýsmál_, _Idja ord_--expressions which do not find their adequate explanation in the Younger Edda's account of the division of Olvalde's estate, but in the myth about the judgment which the gods once proclaimed in the contest concerning the skill of Sindre and the sons of Ivalde, when the treasures of the latter presented in court had to plead their own cause.
The great treasure of works smithied from gold and other precious things which the Gjukungs owned, according to the heroic traditions, are designated in the different sources in the same manner as inherited.
In Atlakvida (11) the Gjukung treasure is called _arf Niflunga_; so also in Atlakvida (27).
25) the queen of the deceased Gjuke promises her and Gjuke's daughter, Gudrun, that she is to have the control of all the treasures "after (_at_) her dead father (_fjöld allz fjar at thin faudur daudan_)," and we are told that those treasures, together with the halls in which they were kept and the precious carpets, are an inheritance after (_at_) _Hlaudver_, "the fallen prince" (_hringa rauda Hlaudves sali, arsal allan at jofur fallin_).
Ivalde's splendidly decorated halls, together with at least one son's share of his golden treasures, have thus passed as an inheritance to Gjuke, and from Gjuke to his sons, the Gjukungs.
2), where it is said that Ivalde (there called Olvalde) was survived by his sons, who harmoniously divided his great treasures.
Thus Gjuke is one of the sons of Ivalde, and inherited halls and treasures after Ivalde; and as he can be neither Volund nor Egil, whose fates we already know, he must be Slagfin--a result confirmed by the evidence which we shall gradually present below.
When Volund and Egil, angry at the gods, abandoned Frey to the power of the giants and set out for the Wolfdales, they were unable to take with them their immense treasures inherited from their father and augmented by themselves.
Saxo (_Hist._, 193) says of the father of Svipdag-Ericus, that is to say, of Orvandel-Egil, that he long had had great treasures concealed in earth caves (_gazæ, quas diu clausæ telluris antra condiderant_).
Vilkinasaga (see below) has rescued an account of a treasure which was preserved in the interior of a mountain, and which he owned.
The popular fancy conceived these treasures left and concealed by Volund as being kept in earth caves, or in mountain halls, guarded and brooded over by dragons.
The Niflung treasure, _hodd Niflunga_ (Atlakvida, 26), _Nibelunge Hort_, is in its more limited sense these Volund treasures, and in its most general signification the golden wealth left by the three brothers.
This wealth the saga represents as gathered again largely in the hands of the Gjukungs, after Sigurd, upon the victory over Fafner, has reunited the most important one of Volund's concealed treasures with that of the Gjukung's, and has married the Gjukung sister Gudrun.
In _Lied von Siegfried_ the treasure is owned by three brothers who are "Niblungs."
In _Nibelunge Noth_ the treasure is owned by "the valiant" Niblungs, Schilbunc and Niblunc.
The poem Biterolf knows that the treasure originally belonged to _Nibelót, der machet himele guldîn; selber wolt er got sîn_.
The Norse heroic saga makes the treasures brooded over by Fafner to have been previously guarded by the dwarf Andvare, and makes the latter (Sigurdarkvida Fafn., ii.
The saga characterises the treasure guarded by him as _that gull, er Gustr átti_.
In the very nature of the case the first maker and possessor of these works must have been one of the most celebrated artists of the mythology; and as _Gustr_ means "wind," "breath of wind;" as, again, Volund in the mythology is the only artist who is designated by a synonym of _Gustr_, that is, by _Byrr_, "wind" (Volundarkvda, 12), and by _Loptr_, "the airy one" (Fjölsvinnsmal, 26); as, furthermore, the song cycle concerning Sigurd Fafnersbane is connected with the children of Gjuke Volund's brother, and in several other respects strikes roots down into the myth concerning Ivalde's sons; and as, finally, the German tradition shows an original connection between _Nibelunge Hort_ and the treasures of the Ivalde sons, then every fact goes to show that in _Gustr_ we have an epithet of Volund, and that the Niflung hoard, both in the Norse and in the German Sigurd-Siegfried saga was the inheritance and the works of Volund and his brothers.
Finally, it must here be stated that Sigurdrifva, to whom Sigurd proceeds after he has gotten possession of Fafner's treasure, (Griperssaga, 13-15), is a mythic character transferred to the heroic saga, who, as shall be shown in the second part of this work, held a conspicuous position in the myths concerning the Ivalde sons and their swan-maids.
The Sigurd songs arch themselves over the fateful treasures which were smithied and left by the fallen Lucifer of the Teutonic mythology, and which, like his sword of revenge and his arrow of revenge, are filled with curses and coming woe.
The son's sons Gunnar and Hogne go as the possessors of the Niblung treasure to meet their ruin.
101) is that he takes arms against Hotherus, when he learns that the latter has got possession of the sword of victory and the wealth-producing ring--treasures that were smithied by Volund, and in that sense belonged to the Niblung hoard.
This right could hardly be based on any other reason than the fact that Gelderus was a Niflung, a kinsman of the maker and owner of the treasures.
118) that the Gjukungs appear in the Sigurd saga as heirs and possessors of _Hlaudverrs halls_ and treasures; it is added that "they possess the whitest shield from _Kiarr's_ hall (Gudrunarkvida, ii.
The fathers of the swan-maids who love Volund and his brothers reappear in the Sigurd songs as heroes who had already left the scene of action, and who had owned immense treasures, which after their death have passed by inheritance into the possession of the Gjukungs.
Down into the deep and dark dales in which this clan hostile to the gods dwells, Ivalde brings his mead-treasure into safety.
He afterwards changes himself into a dragon and guards the treasure on Gnitaheath.
Fafner's abode, where he kept the treasure called Andvarenaut.
He knew where all treasures were hid in the earth, and could call them forth with the aid of magic songs.
He therefore emigrated from Tyrkland, and took with him many people, old and young, men and women, and costly treasures.
One source was the treasure of mythic songs and traditions of their own race.
Among the Romans Saturnus was the guardian of treasures, and the treasury of the Romans was in the temple of Saturnus in the Forum.
What there still remains of migration sagas from the middle ages, taken from the saga-treasure of the Teutons themselves, is, alas!
The Svehans are excellent hunters, who kill the animals whose skins through countless hands are sent to the Romans, and are treasured by them as the finest of furs.
The ship came to the sea-beach, and there was seen lying in it a little boy, who was sleeping with his head on a sheaf of grain, surrounded by treasures and tools, by glaives and coats of mail.
Glittering from hoar-frost and ice, and eager to return to the sea, the boat was waiting to receive the dead king, and around him the grateful and sorrowing people laid no fewer treasures than those with which Scef had come.
When the child has been strengthened in this manner for its great mission, it is laid sleeping in the decorated ship, gets the grain-sheaf for its pillow, and numerous treasures are placed around it.
It is certain that there were not only weapons and ornaments, but also workmen's tools among the treasures.
37, Loke meets Sindre's brother Brok, and wagers his head that Sindre cannot make treasures as good as the above-named gifts from Ivalde's sons to the Asas.
When the treasures were finished, Loke cunningly gets the gods to assemble for the purpose of deciding whether or not he has forfeited his head.
Sindre's treasures are preferred, and thus the sons of Ivalde are declared to be inferior in comparison.
Nor is it long before it becomes apparent what the consequences are of the decision pronounced by the Asas on Loke's advice upon the treasures presented to the gods.
They yield in order to save the life of the harvest-god, who was wasting away with longing and anxiety, but not until the giants had refused to accept other Asgard treasures, among them the precious ring Draupner, which the Asa-father once laid on the pulseless breast of his favourite son Balder.
They shone on account of their _giganteis triumphis_--an ambiguous expression which alludes to the mythic sagas concerning the victories of the Asas over Jotunheim's giants (_gigantes_), and nations have submitted to them as victors, and enriched them with treasures (_trophæis gentium celebres, spoliis locupletes_).
Saxo tells that Hadding made war on a King Handuanus, who had concealed his treasures in the bottom of a lake, and who was obliged to ransom his life with a golden treasure of the same weight as his body (_Hist._.
Here, too, the conquered dwarf-king's life is spared, and Dieterich gets possession of many of his treasures.
Incredible treasures were preserved in that land.
At the same time he warned them most strictly not to touch any of the treasures that might entice their eyes.
As much as the adventurers could carry of these treasures they took with them and hastened to their ships.
63, 93), and as Mimir is mentioned as the guardian of Heimdal's horn and other treasures, it might be expected that these circumstances would not be forgotten in those stories from Christian times which have been cited above and found to have roots in the myths.
Among the treasures taken care of by Mimir is the world's foremost sword and a wonderful arm-ring, smithied by the same master as made the sword (see Nos.
Mimir is known in mythology as a collector of treasures.
He does not deem it proper to show them the unknown land at the golden bridge, but it is within the limits of his authority to let them see the places of punishment and those regions which contain the mead-cisterns and the treasure chambers.
The former mentions, as will be remembered, a place which Gudmund does not consider himself authorized to show his guests, although they are permitted to see other mysterious places in the lower world, even the mead-fountains and treasure-chambers.
Mimir is the collector of treasures.
The same treasures as Gorm and his men found in the land which Gudmund let them visit are, according to mythology, in the care of Mimir.
The grove is called after its ruler and guardian, Mimir's or Treasure-Mimir's grove (_Mimis holt_--Younger Edda, Upsala Codex; Gylfag., 58; _Hoddmimis holt_--Vafthrudnism, 45; Gylfag., 58).
"During the conflagration (_i Surtarloga_) two persons are concealed in Treasure-Mimir's grove.
As to the third point (2_a_), all we know at present is that there, in the lower world, is found an enclosed place, the very one which death cannot enter, and from which even _those_ mortals are banished by divine command who are admitted to the holy fountains and treasure chambers of the lower world, and who have been permitted to see the regions of bliss and places of punishment there.
exclaimed Sikku, recognizing her as the troll woman 90 Sampo was left lying in a snow-drift 114 On the back of the reindeer with golden horns 126 There stood the wolf and the bear 136 The lizard lay perfectly still, listening 146 "Turn back, turn back," said the dove 158 The Mayor was overwhelmed with wonder 172 Nina stood with arms around her little brother 178 Klaus brought forth his only treasure 196 TOP-OF-THE-WORLD STORIES [Illustration] KNUT SPELEVINK[1] Knut was a poor orphan boy who lived with his grandmother at Perlebank in a little hut on the shore.
But he kept at home with himself his dear and only daughter, the Princess Lindagull, because he loved her more than all else on earth,--yes, more than all his treasures and all his riches.
And the proclamation was made that whoever restored his daughter to him, living, should receive the hand of the princess and inherit the Persian crown; whoever brought her back dead should receive as a reward sixty asses laden with gold and costly treasure.
But such a treasure as a princess he preferred to keep for himself; so, instead of taking his captive to old King Bom Bali in Turan, he carried her away, with flying leaps, to his own far-away home in Lapland.
The wizard, in the meantime, hit upon a happy plan for winning Persian treasure, and said to Lindagull: "Weep not, beautiful princess.
"I will show you something," said Klaus with joy and pride, though shyly; and he brought forth his only treasure--two white doves in a cage,--and began to talk eagerly about them.
Again Loki replied, “For eight nights the fair Freyja has not slept, so greatly did she long to reach here!” This again pleased the king, and he said, “Now let the hammer be brought and given to the bride, for the hour has come for our marriage!” All this time Thor was so eager to get his treasure back that he could hardly keep still, and if it had not been for what the wily Loki said, he might have been found out too soon.
But if thou comest to me willingly, then I will never cast thee off, but will keep thee as my most precious treasure so long as I am permitted to breathe the breath of life.
They are the concentrated result of their greatest intellectual and spiritual effort, and it behooves us to cherish this treasure and make it the fountain at which the whole American branch of the Ygdrasil ash may imbibe a united national sentiment.
[35] He possesses three valuable treasures.
The second treasure he possesses is Megingjarder (belt of strength); when he girds himself with it his strength is doubled.
His third treasure that is of so great value is his iron gloves; these he cannot do without when he lays hold of the hammer’s haft.
Thereupon Loke wagered his head with the dwarf, who hight Brok, that his brother Sindre would not be able to make three other treasures equally as good as these were.
All these treasures he then placed in the hands of his brother Brok, and bade him go with Loke to Asgard to fetch the wager.
When Loke and Brok brought forth the treasures, the gods seated themselves upon their doom-steads.
Loke gave to Odin the spear Gungner, to Thor the hair, which Sif was to have, and to Frey, Skidbladner; and he described the qualities of all these treasures, stating that the spear never would miss its mark, that the hair would grow as soon as it was placed on Sif s head, and that Skidbladner would always have fair wind as soon as the sails were hoisted, no matter where its owner desired to go; besides, the ship could be folded together like a napkin and be carried in his pocket if he desired.
Then Brok produced his treasures.
The decision of the gods was, that the hammer was the best of all these treasures and the greatest protection against the frost-giants, and they declared that the dwarf had fairly won the wager.
Hence gold is called the Niflung treasure or inheritance.
Furthermore King Rolf himself should have any three treasures that he might choose in Sweden.
Then the berserks each demanded three pounds of gold in pay for their service, and also asked for the treasures which they had chosen for Rolf Krake, and which they now desired to bring to him.
But the king refused to surrender any of these treasures, nor did he give the berserks any pay.
Her treasure (the very names of Ottilia and Adela point to a treasure) is continually being taken from her by the third fay, a dark and evil one, as well as by the first.
Of the Swedish elves, Arndt gives the following sketch: Of giants, of dwarfs, of the alp, of dragons, that keep watch over treasures, they have the usual stories; nor are the kindly elves forgotten.
Fafner’s abode, where he kept the treasure of the Niblungs.
The wonderful plant did not seem to lose any of its magic by being removed from its island, and Trot was sure that Ozma would prize it as one of her most delightful treasures.
They took him away and imprisoned him, ham-strung, on an island to forge treasures for his captors.
The outline is as follows: Sigurd the Volsung, son of Sigmund and brother of Sinfjötli, slays the dragon who guards the Nibelungs' hoard on the Glittering Heath, and thus inherits the curse which accompanies the treasure; he finds and wakens Brynhild the Valkyrie, lying in an enchanted sleep guarded by a ring of fire, loves her and plights troth with her; Grimhild, wife of the Burgundian Giuki, by enchantment causes him to forget the Valkyrie, to love her own daughter Gudrun, and, since he alone can cross the fire, to win Brynhild for her son Gunnar.
The scene of the story is always near that river: Sigurd was slain by the Rhine, and the treasure of the Rhine is quoted as proverbial in the Völund lay.
_Gripisspa_ is followed by a compilation from two or more poems in different metres, generally divided into three parts in the editions: _Reginsmal_ gives the early history of the treasure and the dragon, and Sigurd's battle with Hunding's sons; _Fafnismal_, the slaying of the dragon and the advice of the talking birds; _Sigrdrifumal_, the awakening of the Valkyrie.
All the rest, except the poem generally called the _Third_, or _Short, Sigurd Lay_ (which tells of the marriage with Gudrun and Sigurd's wooing of Brynhild for Gunnar) continue the story after Sigurd's death, taking up the death of Brynhild, Gudrun's mourning, and the fates of the other heroes who became connected with the legend of the treasure.
But for actual material, the compiler is absolutely to be trusted; and _Völsunga Saga_ is therefore, in spite of artistic faults, a priceless treasure-house for the real features of the legend.
All that it tells is that Sigemund, Fitela (Sinfjötli) not being with him, killed the dragon, the guardian of the hoard, and loaded a ship with the treasure.
Each story again includes a deed of vengeance, and a dragon and treasure.
As a rule tradition is satisfied with the existence of the monster "old and proud of his treasure," but here we are told its full previous history, certain features of which (such as the shape-shifting) are signs of antiquity, whether it was originally connected with the Volsungs or not.
The first of these comprises question and answer between Loki and the dwarf Andvari in the form of the old riddle-poems, and seems to result from the confusion of two ideas: the question-and-answer wager, and the captive's ransom by treasure.
Then follows the curse, in less general terms than in the prose: "My gold shall be the death of two brothers, and cause strife among eight kings; no one shall rejoice in the possession of my treasure."
A speech of Sigurd's follows, in which he refuses to seek the treasure till he has avenged his father on Hunding's sons.
Fafni warns the Volsung against the hoard: "The ringing gold and the glowing treasure, the rings shall be thy death."
He invited Gunnar and Högni to his court and killed them for the sake of the treasure, in vengeance for which Gudrun killed her own two sons and Atli; this latter incident being possibly an imitation of Signy.
Yet the treasure is always the Nibelungs' hoard, which clearly means that they were the original owners; and when Hagen von Tronje tells the story later in the poem, he speaks of the Nibelungs correctly as the dwarfs from whom Siegfried won it.
In the _Nibelungen Lied_ the winning of the treasure forms no part of the action: it is merely narrated by Hagen.
The curse-laden treasure is here the sword Tyrfing, which Svafrlami got by force from the dwarfs.
The curse-bringing treasure, one of the most fruitful Germanic motives, probably has its origin in the custom of burying a dead man's possessions with him.
It is easy to see that when this custom came into conflict with the son's natural desire to inherit, the sacrosanctity of the dead man's treasure and of his burial-mound would be their only protection against violation.
In _Gold-Thori's Saga_, the dead berserks whose howe Thori enters, are found guarding their treasure in the shape of dragons; while Thori himself is said to have turned into a dragon after death.
I had quite forgotten it, but I am pleased to think that you have treasured my humble keepsake all these years.
Your daughter Daisy, the pride and treasure of our little circle, has disappeared.
When I urged him to sign a written agreement to keep you always in a good humour he refused, and then he remembered an urgent appointment in Nova Scotia; and he has gone, and taken most of the crown treasure with him.
So he said to his slaves: “Get a hand-cart, and carry the thing on to the middle of the bridge and drop it into the river.” So they did, and the stone stuck, end-up, in the mud; and when the golden argosies of the Magician came up the river, bearing peacocks and apes and turquoises, every single galley split on that stone, and the whole treasure went to the bottom; all but the peacocks, and they flew away into the country of a neighbouring King, who thought every one should be useful and not ornamental; so he cut off the peacocks tails, and clipped their wings, and tried to teach them to lay turkey’s eggs.
So then the Magician set a lot of people dredging for the lost treasure; and, among other things, they fished up some poor dead apes and the big white stone, and as the stone seemed to have been rather in the way in the bed of the river, they carted it away to the fields behind the town, where the white jonquils grew, and dumped it down there, and left it among the long grass.
It does not relate to Odin and the gods of Valhalla, but to an old Viking and a buried treasure.
And here Idris drew forth a second piece of vellum, and read from it as follows:-- _"'Hilda, the Alruna, to her son, Magnus of Deira, greeting.--Within the lofty tomb of thy sire Orm, the Golden, wilt thou find the treasure won by his high arm.
Let us further grant that they had reasons for believing that the old Viking's treasure still existed in the spot where it was originally placed.
"That they would endeavour to possess themselves of this treasure."
'_Within the lofty tomb of thy sire Orm, the Golden_,'" continued he, reading from Idris' translation of the inscription, "'_wilt thou find the treasure, won by his high arm._' There is nothing here to indicate the site of this 'lofty tomb.'"
"How interesting if you should discover the treasure!"
"We are not very likely to discover treasure that was secreted a thousand years ago," commented Godfrey.
"And yet," said Idris, "many sepulchral barrows, opened in our day, are found to contain treasure--coins, drinking-horns, armour, and the like."
"True: but in this case you forget that the words on the runic ring were an express invitation to Orm's son--what was his name, Magnus?--to possess himself of the treasure.
The ring might thus retain its secret, and the hillock its treasure, down to our own time."
"'_Within the lofty tomb of thy sire, Orm the Golden, wilt thou find the treasure won by his high arm.
"Now if my grandfather were here," she remarked, "he might be able to tell us whether or not Ormfell contains the treasure, without taking the trouble to break into the tumulus."
"The treasures of the Viking, supposing them to be still within the hillock, may lie concealed under the floor of the chamber, and we shall be at a loss to know at what point to dig for them."
Is not treasure-trove the property of the Crown?"
Was he standing on the site of the Viking's buried treasure?
Was the very treasure itself lying upon the clay flooring at his feet?
But the treasures deposited of old by Hilda the Alruna for her son, Magnus of Deira--where were they?
the treasure placed within the 'lofty tomb' by his wife, Hilda, the Norse prophetess?
Did he come here in ancient days to remove his heritage, or has the treasure been taken by other, perhaps modern, hands?
This other figure is perhaps intended for her son Magnus: if so, it is clear that he was a lad at the time of his father's death, which may account for his mother's act in hiding the treasure in Ormfell.
What more likely than that, on discovering the meaning of the Norse runes (a copy of which had been made by Rochefort while the altar-ring was in his possession), the two friends, in a spirit of adventure, should steer their yacht's course to Ormsby, the site of the supposed treasure?
Desire for its possession had led Eric Marville into a mischance that had doomed him to a prison-life: he had escaped from the convict's cell, and had wrested the secret from the runic ring, only to meet with a watery grave in sight of the very treasure-hill that he had come to explore!
Was the removal of the Viking's treasure due to one of them, or to the joint action of the two?
Sallying forth from this place he would plunder the neighbouring monasteries, or, putting out to sea, attack the merchant vessels that passed his shores, thus becoming possessed in course of time, of a vast quantity of treasure in the shape of gold and silver, church-plate, coinage, jewels, and the like.
He was but a child at the time of his father's death, and the widowed mother, Hilda, fearing that an attempt might be made to deprive him of his patrimonial treasure, secretly buried it, purposing to give it to her son when he should be of age to defend his rights.
Cut to the heart by this unfilial act Hilda vowed that she would never reveal to him the hiding-place of the treasure: and so, being banished, she returned to her native Norseland, taking with her the silver altar-ring.
She resolved to break her oath of silence and to tell him where the treasure lay concealed.
She engraved upon the altar-ring a sentence indicative of the exact site of the treasure, making use of runic letters, arranged in such a way that none but Magnus could understand them: for cryptic writing had been one of the many arts she had taught him.
In a moment the ancient greybeards--old companions of Draco--recognized the sacred relic of Odin, and sternly commanded the stranger to explain how he became possessed of their former chieftain's ring: it had formed a part of the missing treasure: he must, therefore, know where the remainder was.
With a stammering tongue the herald stated that he was a messenger from the Lady Hilda, and pointing to the inscription upon the ring, said that it indicated the hiding-place of the treasure.
To this spot the herald was dragged and told that unless he revealed the hiding-place of the treasure he should be sacrificed there and then to Odin and Thor.
With his dying breath the herald called upon heaven to be his avenger, invoking a curse upon the head of him who should discover the treasure, and praying that the finder might meet with a death as violent as his own.
"Then, of course, the treasure of old Orm--Draco, I mean--has never been discovered?"
It is not likely that the buried treasure has remained undiscovered for a thousand years."
For example, there had actually existed an altar-ring such as described--for he had seen and handled it himself--a ring engraved with a sentence which not only spoke of a buried treasure, but also bore the names of the very persons, Orm, Hilda, and Magnus, who had figured so prominently in the story.
In forgetting that he was likewise called Orm, they had unwittingly deprived themselves of an indication as to the place of the buried treasure.
Lorelie took a pride in pointing out her treasures.
"Then you do not know what treasure it may contain," smiled Beatrice.
"The death of Cunimund was not sufficient to satiate the hatred of Alboin; the skull of the fallen king, fashioned into a drinking cup, became the most treasured ornament of his sideboard.
Would she reach modern times, and speak of those who had removed the treasure?
If any one had told him that the Viking's treasure was lying upon the roadway outside to be his own for the mere trouble of walking thither, he would not have stirred from his position.
How many minutes were to serve as a measure of the space that separated the age of Orm from the date of the removal of the treasure?
"That urn," he continued, pointing to the golden vase, "formed a part of the treasure that led to the crime.
"'That urn,'" she continued, repeating Idris' words, "'formed a part of the treasure that led to a murder.
It relates to the buried treasure of an old Norse Viking--which treasure, he avers, still exists in the spot where it was hidden, a thousand years ago, the site being some point on the eastern coast of England.
He drinks: talks loudly: laughs: and promises to divide his imaginary treasure among the crew.
I confess that I myself am affected by the general gloom, but when I expressed to Marville my intention of remaining at Bergen till his return from the treasure-search, he cried, 'No, no!
He escorted his new daughter-in-law through the finer parts of the castle, pointing out the various treasures contained within its walls: but though he talked much during this tour of inspection Lorelie was conscious all the time of being furtively scanned by him, as if he were trying to fathom her character and aims: and the belief was borne in upon her mind that she was the object of his suspicion and fear.
So he keeps this treasure to himself in a secret place."
"Your father inspects these treasures occasionally, I presume?"
"So the Viking's treasure found its way to Ravenhall," she murmured.
Behind her rose the ivied mansion with its fine halls and treasures of art.
The coffin, of more than ordinary size, was a veritable treasure-chest, filled to the lid with plate and precious stones, the latter forming by far the larger part of the contents.
When the coffin had been emptied, the earl produced a pocketbook containing a list of the treasures.
Certain it was that a death _had_ occurred in connection with the finding of the treasure.
To obtain the necessary counterfeits Ivar must have conveyed the originals to the continent, a very hazardous thing to do, seeing that if the earl had paid a visit of inspection to the treasure during his son's absence, discovery would have been inevitable.
Here's to the great Archfiend himself, the author and giver of the treasure, for Heaven, I am convinced, has had little to do with it."
"If," she replied evasively, "if we can discover the present possessor of the Viking's treasure, we shall obtain a strong clue to the assassin?"
"Well, then, the Viking's treasure is at Ravenhall, concealed in the secret vault."
"Who placed the treasure there?"
"Now my belief is that the earl, having discovered that Ormfell was the site of a buried treasure, was proceeding thither at night, either alone or attended by a servant, for the purpose of opening the hillock, and while on his way through the park he chanced to light upon his wife's hat-pin.
"And you say the Viking's treasure is in the crypt of Ravenhall?
Treasure-trove, as you know, is the property of the Crown: therefore the earl, on finding it, was compelled to act circumspectly.
"Mr. Breakspear, your right to that treasure is greater than the earl's."
"The Viking's treasure!"
"By this hoarded treasure, gained at the price of blood, I adjure you, speak!
"Till he surprised me in Ormfell as I was in the act of removing the treasure."
She will have half the Viking's treasure as her dowry.
$1.50 Mr. Carling has written a spirited story of love and adventure, with an ingeniously constructed plot, which tells how Idris Marville, true Earl of Ormsby, recovered a treasure hidden by one of his progenitors,--a Viking of the Ninth Century,--and how he cleared the memory of his father, who had been wrongfully convicted of murder.